In the previous video, we already configure port
security in fa0/1.
Next in this video, we are going to learn about mac address sticky.
If you remember, when configuring port security on fa0/1, we register the mac address of server 1 manually.
Let’s scroll to find the command,
here we can see switchport port-security
mac-address and then the mac-address of server 1.
So here we register the
mac-address of server 1 manually.
Beside registering mac-address manually
like this, we can use mac-address sticky.
If we use mac-address sticky,
the switch will detect the first computer
connected to the interface. Let’s try it.
We are going to test for
server 2, the interface is fa0/2,
here let’s enable, configure terminal, and then
go to interface fa0/2. Remember that we need to
change the mode to access first before configuring
port security. So here switchport mode access,
and then to enable port security, the command
is switchport port-security.
Remember that this command is to enable port security.
Let’s check it first,
do show port-security interface fa0/2. Here we
can see that now the port security is disabled.
Now let’s enable the port security, let’s check
again do show port security interface fa0/2.
Okay here we can see that now
the port security is enabled.
Next let’s configure the mac address, but we will
not register the mac address of server 2 manually,
we will use mac-address sticky. The
command is switchport port-security
mac-address sticky. Remember that
if we configure mac-address sticky,
the switch will detect the first
computer who connected to the interface.
So in this case, the switch will detect
that server 2 is the valid computer for fa0/2.
Next let’s configure the maximum,
switchport port-security maximum 1,
and finally let’s configure the violation.
Okay now we have done, let’s check it,
do show port-security interface fa0/2.
Here we can see that the port security
is enable, the status is secure up,
violation shutdown, and maximum mac address is 1.
But the total mac address, configured mac
address, and sticky mac address is still 0,
this is means that server 2 is not registered
yet. Let’s try to send packet from server 2.
Okay here success, let’s back to the
switch, let’s check the port security again,
okay here we can see that now
configured and sticky mac address is 1.
Let’s try show run, here we can see in the fa0/2,
remember that we configure mac address sticky,
and after server 2 send packet to
server 3, server 2 is registered to fa0/2
automatically like this. So this command
is added automatically by the switch.
Let’s make sure that this is the mac address
of server 2, open the server 2, go to config,
fa0, here the end of mac address is
23:c1, this is same as in the switch.
Okay so now the switch recognize that
the valid computer for fa0/2 is server 2.
I think enough for this video, you can do testing
by your self, so unplug the cable from server 2
and plug it to the hacker, you will see
that the interface will be shutdown.
In the next video, we are going
to learn about other violation,
which is protect and restrict.
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next video